.TH VAULT 1 "July 2, 2026" "myminivault 0.11.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vault \- local encrypted command-line key/value vault
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vault
\fIcommand\fR [\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B myminivault
stores key/value secrets in an encrypted local vault file. Runtime files are
stored under
.B ~/.myminivault
by default, or under the directory selected by
.BR MYMINIVAULT_HOME .

The tool is an experimental personal project. It is not independently audited
and should not be treated as a production password manager.
.SH BASIC COMMANDS
.TP
.B set <key> <value>
Store or update a secret value.
.TP
.B get <key> --show
Print a stored value to the terminal by explicit request.
.TP
.B copy <key> [--ttl=30s]
Copy a stored value to the clipboard and clear it after the TTL when supported.
.TP
.B delete <key>
Delete a key.
.TP
.B list
List key names without printing values.
.TP
.B search <pattern> --show
Search key names and print matching plaintext values by explicit request.
.TP
.B export --output <file>
Write shell-safe export lines to a restrictive plaintext file.
.TP
.B export --stdout
Print shell-safe export lines to stdout by explicit request.
.TP
.B import <file>
Import shell-style key/value entries.
.TP
.B backup
Create a timestamped backup of the current vault file.
.TP
.B stats
Print vault metadata and summary counts.
.SH RECOVERY COMMANDS
.TP
.B setup-recovery
Create or replace a high-entropy recovery key and recovery snapshot.
.TP
.B test-recovery
Validate a recovery key against the configured recovery metadata.
.TP
.B recover
Reset the master password from the recovery snapshot.
.TP
.B change-password
Change the master password.
.SH TOKEN COMMANDS
.TP
.B create-token --keys=<pattern> --duration=<duration> [--permissions=read,write] [--max-uses=N]
Create a compact signed token with scope, expiry, permissions, and usage limit.
.TP
.B use-token <token> <cmd> [args...]
Run a permitted token command such as
.BR get ,
.BR set ,
.BR list ,
or
.BR search .
Pass
.B --json
to token commands for machine-readable success and error output.
.TP
.B list-tokens
List configured token records.
.TP
.B token-info <token-id>
Show details for one token record.
.TP
.B revoke-token <token-id>
Remove a token from the token manager and shared token vault.
.TP
.B cleanup-tokens
Remove expired or fully used tokens.
.TP
.B sync-tokens
Import staged shared-token-vault writes into the main vault.
.TP
.B regenerate-token-key
Generate a new local token master key and invalidate existing tokens.
.SH SECURITY AND HEALTH COMMANDS
.TP
.B doctor
Check local runtime file permissions, config validity, backups, recovery
freshness and compatibility, token freshness, token key storage readiness,
and lock state.
.TP
.B inspect-runtime
List active and legacy runtime files without decrypting vault data. Encrypted
runtime files also show cleartext container format details when available,
plus a recovery/main-vault relationship summary.
.TP
.B security-audit
Print a local vault security summary.
.TP
.B config
Show effective configuration, including token key storage mode.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B MYMINIVAULT_HOME
Overrides the default runtime directory. Use it for isolated test vaults,
automation, or separate local vault contexts.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.myminivault/vault.db
Main encrypted vault.
.TP
.B ~/.myminivault/vault.db.bak
Previous main vault backup.
.TP
.B ~/.myminivault/vault.db.recovery
Recovery-encrypted vault snapshot.
.TP
.B ~/.myminivault/vault-token.key
Local token master key when file-backed token key storage is used.
.TP
.B ~/.myminivault/shared-token-vault.json
Encrypted shared vault used by token commands.
.TP
.B ~/.myminivault/vault-tokens.json
Token registry metadata.
.TP
.B ~/.myminivault/vault.log
Redacted audit log.
.TP
.B ~/.myminivault/vault-config.json
Optional configuration override.
.SH SECURITY NOTES
Values printed by
.B get --show
or
.B export --stdout
may remain in terminal scrollback or logs. Prefer
.B copy
or
.B export --output
when terminal exposure matters.

Release artifacts include SHA-256 checksums and GitHub artifact attestations
when built by the release workflow. Verify release assets before installing
them in sensitive environments.
.SH SEE ALSO
Project documentation:
.B README.md,
.B docs/user-manual.md,
.B docs/security.md,
.B docs/recovery-policy.md,
and
.B docs/token-sync-policy.md.
